README.md, before:

# Gefyra Docker Desktop Extension

**Connect your local containers to any Kubernetes cluster.**

Gefyra aims to ease the burdens of K8s based development for developers.
Run a container locally and connect it to a Kubernetes cluster to:

 - talk to other services
 - let other services talk to your local container
 - debug
 - faster iterations - no build/push/deploy/repeat

 ## How does this extension work?

The extension uses [gefyra-ex](https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra-ext) which is basically a wrapper around [Gefyra](https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra)
itself. It allows leverage Gefyra as a libary and takes JSON strings as an input, which makes it easy for JS/TS based programs to use Gefyra. 

The Docker Desktop extension comes with a packed binary ('gefyra-ext') and builds an UI on top of it.

## Development
To build make sure to add executable from https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra-ext/ to root directory.

Make sure to follow Docker's extension guidelines: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/extensions-sdk/
UI component library: https://mui.com/

Install extension:

```bash
make install-extension
```

Run hot reload webpack server for UI:
```bash
cd ui/
npm run start
```

Connect webpack server to Gefyra Docker Desktop extension:
```bash
docker extension dev ui-source gefyra/docker-desktop-extension:latest http://localhost:3000
```

Make Chrome devtools available:
```bash
docker extension dev debug gefyra/docker-desktop-extension:latest
```

## Bump gefyra-ext
Just bump the `gefyra` package in the `ui/package.json` file (via `npm`).
Rebuild the extension - it references the version found in the package file and will download
the corresponding binary files.

## Release

1. Bump package.json (`npm version`)
2. Commit + Tag
3. Release on Github

Commit message:

chore: add installation hint
Signed-off-by: Robert Stein <robert@blueshoe.de>

README.md, after:

# Gefyra Docker Desktop Extension

**Connect your local containers to any Kubernetes cluster.**

Gefyra aims to ease the burdens of K8s based development for developers.
Run a container locally and connect it to a Kubernetes cluster to:

 - talk to other services
 - let other services talk to your local container
 - debug
 - faster iterations - no build/push/deploy/repeat

 ## How does this extension work?

The extension uses [gefyra-ex](https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra-ext) which is basically a wrapper around [Gefyra](https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra)
itself. It allows leverage Gefyra as a libary and takes JSON strings as an input, which makes it easy for JS/TS based programs to use Gefyra. 

The Docker Desktop extension comes with a packed binary ('gefyra-ext') and builds an UI on top of it.

## Installation

Currently the extension is not available on the Docker Marketplace yet. Until then you can install it manually:

```bash
docker extension install gefyra/docker-desktop-extension:0.1.0
```

## Development
To build make sure to add executable from https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra-ext/ to root directory.

Make sure to follow Docker's extension guidelines: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/extensions-sdk/
UI component library: https://mui.com/

Install extension:

```bash
make install-extension
```

Run hot reload webpack server for UI:
```bash
cd ui/
npm run start
```

Connect webpack server to Gefyra Docker Desktop extension:
```bash
docker extension dev ui-source gefyra/docker-desktop-extension:latest http://localhost:3000
```

Make Chrome devtools available:
```bash
docker extension dev debug gefyra/docker-desktop-extension:latest
```

## Bump gefyra-ext
Just bump the `gefyra` package in the `ui/package.json` file (via `npm`).
Rebuild the extension - it references the version found in the package file and will download
the corresponding binary files.

## Release

1. Bump package.json (`npm version`)
2. Commit + Tag
3. Release on Github
